# Data-Cleansing-Tool
Metadata consist of information that characterizes data. Metadata are actually used to provide the documentation for the data products. In the essence the metadata can answer: who, what, when, where, why, and also how about every facet of data that are being documented in a machine. Metadata within a file type(can be anything) can actually tell a lot about you. Cameras can record the data about when a picture was taken and also what camera was used at the time. Office documents which are: PDF or Office automatically adds the author and the company info to the documents and also the spreadsheets. Maybe you don't want to disclose those information. That is when this data cleansing tool comes into picture . you can have all the metadata of the documents you share either randomized, anonymized or even both. This tool essentially focuses on the location, source of the data anonymization. There are many notable drawbacks to Exif metadata. The most challenging drawback is ease in which data can be manipulated and lack of audit methodology for tracking the changes to metadata. Much of media source material found on Internet will contain a very little metadata. Practically all of social networking sites now routinely strip the metadata from images that are uploaded to their websites. original reason for removing the metadata is that the Internet trolls and the stalkers were harvesting the GPS data from the images of the celebrities and the officials to determine their travel habits and then also intercepting them at the expected locations.
